=Poll=

<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">Version</dt>
<dd><p>1.1</p></dd>

<dt style="font-weight:bold">Author</dt>
<dd><p>Bryce Campbell</p></dd>

<dt style="font-weight:bold">Copyright</dt>
<dd><p>2025</p></dd>

<dt style="font-weight:bold">Description</dt>
<dd><p>A PHP based polling system meant for use cases where users can vote without a form, such as during livestreams.</p></dd>

<dt style="font-weight:bold">License</dt>
<dd><p>See LICENSE</p></dd>
</dl>

==Notes==

This application has been tested on PHP 8.4.3 and <strong>should</strong> on later.

Also, because this application uses SQLite, be sure your server has the PDO drivers for SQLite.

===Installation===

Download the archive or clone the repo to where your server looks for files.

As long as the location has PHP enabled, 
the PDO SQLite module is enabled, permissions are properly set,
and the DirectoryIndex is set for both <strong>index.html</strong> and
<strong>index.php</strong>, things should operate just fine.

===Questions===

<ol>
<li>
<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">Why create this when there are already plenty of other options?</dt>
<dd>
<p>While there are many different polling options, especially for streaming, such as 
<a href="https://www.livereacting.com/poll-in-live-stream">LiveReacting</a>, 
many of them cost money or were more suited to engagement on websites than what I needed.</p>
<p>Plus, I thought it would be nice to challenge myself 
at creating a polling system for that that can just be linked up 
to bots that are already part of streams, such as Nightbot.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li>
<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">How do I add this to my stream?</dt>
<dd>
<p>This would depend on how you are broadcast the stream, 
but after adding a new command 
to the bot you use for your stream that calls the URL to cast a vote,
make sure to add the main URL for the poll as a browser source, 
so viewers can see it.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li>
<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">Can I have polls automatically close?</dt>
<dd>
<p>While it is possible to close polls as of version 1.1, 
automatic closing itself is not possible within these scripts, 
to keep things simple.</p>
<p>Also, some bots, such as Nightbot, 
have cooldown periods for commands, so taking those into account can be
difficult.</p>
<p>However, 
if you would like to have your poll close automatically,
you can check the documentation for your OS to have it ping the appropriate address.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li>
<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">Can I share my instance with friends?</dt>
<dd>
<p>You can, but that would be a bad idea.</p>
<p>This application was created with the intent that a single user would
be using it on each instance.</p>
<p>While this does have some possible security risks, 
hence the reason it is not recommended to share instances, 
it was done for ease of use and convenience.</p>
<p>To help with security, 
be sure to exclude the location you install these script 
from being accessible by bots.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ol>

===Version History===

<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">1.1</dt>
<dd>
<p>add ability to close polls.</p>
</dd>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">1.0</dt>
<dd>
<p>initial release.</p>
<p>Released Feb. 2025</p>
</dd>
</dl>

===Creating Polls===

To create a poll, you would visit an address like this:

<pre>
http://example.com/poll/create
</pre>

This will display a form, 
where you can fill in the question or prompt and options.

Each option will for the poll is to then be listed on its own line.

===Voting===

For users to be able to cast their votes, they would typically enter a URL, 
with query string like this:

<pre>
http://example.com/poll/vote?choice=hello
</pre>

The system works like this, 
so that it has an easy pattern to associate with bots like Nightbot,
as the intention was to use this while live streaming.

As such, it is strongly recommended to use a browser source to display 
the poll, so that users can see what their options are.

However, as I have yet to do testing with bots, 
I do not know they will handle the given format.

The votes cast will be checked against available response 
and will only be accepted if it is valid.

The votes themselves are case insensitive.

===Closing Poll===

To close a poll, you would enter a URL like this:

<pre>
http://example.com/poll/close
</pre>

This will close the currently running poll.

You can also close any other running poll by using a URL like this:

<pre>
http://example.com/poll/close?id=1
</pre>

The <strong>id</strong> parameter 
used is also present on the main page that displays polls,
so it can also be used used to view certain polls.

===Contributing===

If you would like to help make things better, 
such as closing polls, feel free to fork this repo and do so.

Please be aware that I can reject the pull request for any reason, 
though I try to be chill with things.

===Support===

While this is my second PHP project, 
after the <a href="https://github.com/bryceac/Question-of-the-Day">question of the day</a>,
I still don't think I am that well experienced with PHP, 
but I will try to help you the best that I can. Just shoot me an email at the following:

tonyhawk2100@gmail.com